[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> The Bible is one of the most
referenced books in the world.
Over the last few decades,
an intense religious
and scientific debate has been
building around the idea of ETs
in the Bible.
In 2014, the Center for
Theological Inquiry,
a research institute
in New Jersey,
was awarded $1.1 million
by NASA to study, quote,
"the societal implications
of astrobiology" unquote.
In other words, what
would the overall impact
be on religions if they were
to discover we're not alone
in the universe.
Is it possible
that a distant race
of ancient aliens once inhabited
the lands of the Bible?
And if so, are we
part of their legacy?
>> When we're reading the
Bible, we always have to look
to the first page to see which
version of the Bible are you
reading--
the New International version,
the New New International
version, the King James
version, the St. Jerome version?
Which version are you
reading, because the language
is going to be different.
If we were to write, for
example, the ET version
of the Bible, we'd go back
to every story where it says
"and the heavens opened"
and realize they're
talking about a stargate.
What else could be the
heavens opening but a rip
in the fabric of space-time?
And so this is a
way we can start
to connect with what the
ancients were actually
seeing or experiencing.
Their language was
different from ours.
They would say "the
heavens opened."
We would say, "oh,
a stargate opened."
It's as much a
function of language
that separates us from
true understanding
as it is anything else.
>> There are so many references
of extraterrestrial contact
in the Bible.
There are 70 verses
describing clouds
as vehicles, 15 verses
describing pillars,
10 verses describing
dwellings as vehicles,
160 verses describing the
light and fires as vehicles.
There are 17 verses
describing spinning wheels
and also 22 verses
describing dark
and shining objects as vehicles.
There's also 37 verses of
various objects in the Bible
that describe UFOs as flying
furnaces and burning bushes.
So as you can see, based
off of the vocabulary
of the people of
those times, they
can only use words that
would help them describe what
we would call nowadays UFOs.
The Bible begins with
the Book of Genesis
and it ends with the
Book of Revelations.
In between are dozens of
stories that reference
what many scholars suggest may
be extraterrestrial phenomena.
Genesis 6:4 describes
the sons of God
coming and bearing children
with the daughters of man.
This begs the question,
who were the sons of God?
>> The ultimate example of an
extraterrestrial intervention
in the Bible is
Genesis chapter 6.
This is where the fallen angels,
the watcher angels, descend
onto the earth plane, take
on physical incarnation,
and have sex with human females
creating a hybrid offspring
referred to as the Nephilim.
These are described as
the mighty men of renown.
Why is that?
What does it mean to say
that they're mighty men?
What distinguishes a mighty
man from an ordinary human?
And the answer is that these
fallen angels are considered
to be equivalent to, if not
the same as, the Anunnaki
of Sumeria.
The Anunnaki possessed a
cloak or a garment called
the [NON-ENGLISH] that
gave them superpowers.
So what this is saying
is that the Nephilim
were the mighty humans
who possessed this cloak
or garment of the Anunnaki.
And just like the Anunnaki,
when they had the [NON-ENGLISH]
on, they're radiant, they're
shining, they're luminous.
And they have superpowers.
So this is another hidden
reference to technology
in the Bible.
>> That kind of interaction
actually talks about
the Nephilim actually
interbreeding with human women.
That's a pretty big influence.
>> Inside of our DNA, there's
a programming language there.
It's been left by
our progenitors.
When we crack this code and
when we figure out who we are
and where we're going, we'll
realize that our destiny
is in the stars.
Therefore we have
to ask ourselves
if we go back to
the Genesis story,
were these a very advanced
group of geneticists that
made us as a hybrid species?
>> There are accounts like
this that have appeared--
the former that I was referring
to actually in the Bible
itself, but other sources
of ancient origins
like that such as the tablets
that Zecharia was translating--
that seemed to be
indicative of accounts
of these other beings
interacting with us.
>> Walter Mattfield states
in his book "Eden's Serpent--
Its Mesopotamian origins"
that the Garden of Eden
belonged to the
Anunnaki, lending
more credence to the serpent not
just being a biblical creature
but a member of the Anunnaki.
>> Let's think of the serpent
in the Garden of Eden.
This is some type
of a reptilian type
of being that we've been
taught to be afraid of.
It's a wisdom bearer.
In the Gnostic Gospels,
they describe it
as this bright snake,
this illuminated snake,
taking on a humanoid form.
We have the winged serpents
that are described in the Bible,
angels as winged serpents,
humanoid beings with serpentine
faces.
They can spin their
bodies into whirlwinds
and can change their form.
They can shape shift
right before your eyes.
These are clearly
another class of beings.
So I think what's
going to have to happen
here is we're going
to have to broaden
our perspective on the
possibility of what
other creatures could
actually look like or be like.
>> The Garden of Eden story also
appears in the Book of Ezekiel
where over the course
of 12 different verses,
there is mention of possible
extraterrestrial encounters.
>> One of the all time
great extraterrestrial craft
references in the Bible
is Ezekiel 1:1-28.
Ezekiel is one of these wise
men from the Temple of Solomon
who's been deported to Babylon.
He's sitting by
the River Chebar.
And he describes, in his
own words, the heavens open.
The heavens open.
OK, this is a rip in the
fabric of space-time.
And he next describes something
absolutely phenomenal.
He says there's a cloud with
this brightness about it.
And it's flashing
like lightning.
>> He actually saw this
vessel not only to land,
but he actually got inside of
it and he took off with it with
people.
He thought that it was God.
And they even said to
him, no, we're not God.
We're here to take
you somewhere to meet
somebody very important.
So basically it was a very, very
good, recorded account of a UFO
that landed and that
somebody got inside
of and took off and
went to another location
to meet another being.
And these beings, according
to the writings, were not God.
So it's very interesting
to know that there's
a lot of talk about, not only
UFOs in the Bible, but even
people taking off.
>> When examining the Old
Testament account of Ezekiel,
perhaps one of the most
fascinating perspectives
to consider comes from
Erich Von Daniken,
author of "Chariots
of the Gods."
>> My God, in my
opinion, in my dreams,
does not need a vehicle
in which to move around.
God is omnipresent.
God is like the spirit.
He is always there.
Now in the Bible,
the prophet Ezekiel
describes a strange story.
He says all of a sudden, he
heard a noise in the sky.
All the slaves looked up there.
Then he sees an object
coming down from the sky.
Then he realizes that the
object makes a tremendous noise.
He compares the noise with
the thundering of a waterfall.
Or he compares it
with fighting wagons.
So a terrible noise
this object made.
All the slaves looking there.
The object comes down.
The sand is blown up.
Ezekiel is high
priest by profession.
So he believes in the
beginning, it must be God.
He fells on his nose
to pray to the Lord.
And then he realize
this is not God.
And then he describes
exactly what he sees.
The wings move.
When the wings move,
that the tremendous noise
started to be there again.
When the wings stood still,
they were hanging down.
He describes the leg.
He clearly sees the
legs were out of metal.
Then he describes the wheel.
And the wheel
shocked him totally
because the wheel of his times
can go forward and backward.
But the wheel
which he sees here,
they go also forward
and backward,
but at the same time left and
right without making a steering
movement.
Ezekiel sees a wheel which
goes forward, backward, right,
and left without making
a steering movement.
This shocks him so he
cannot understand it.
He describes it four times.
Some 30 years ago, I
had a secret speech
at the headquarter
at NASA in Huntsville
in the United States.
On this speech, I also
talk about five minutes
about Ezekiel.
And after the speech, we
had the dinner together.
And there was the
Chief of the Department
of Construction, an ex-German.
His name was Josef
Blumrich who came to me
and said that was
very interesting.
But Mr. Von Daniken
in the Bible,
we never found technology.
The Bible this is imagination.
These are dreamings,
visions, but not technology.
He started to read
Ezekiel and finally he
realized that whatever
Ezekiel described is real.
And he started to reconstruct
Ezekiel's description.
The outcome was a book with the
English title "The Spaceships
of Ezekiel."
And in the foreword of
it, Mr. Josef Blumrich,
the ex-chief of the
construction department at NASA
said, I absolutely
started this work
to disprove Erich Von
Daniken's story of Ezekiel,
but it was absolutely
sensational what comes out.
Ezekiel did saw
extraterrestrial spacecraft.
Now Ezekiel's spaceship is not
a mother spaceship with which
you can move from star to star.
Ezekiel's spaceship is only
an object which today we
would call space shuttle.
You have to have a
mother spaceship.
And from the mother
spaceship, a smaller vehicle
comes down to the earth.
So that's what it was.
Now this is very important.
I knew the original Ezekiel.
I read it first in Hebrew.
I did not learn
special Hebrew, but we
had the Latin translation.
And in the original
Ezekiel, the word "God"
never appears, never.
Ezekiel says it was "the
splendorness of the highest."
The word God in the
Bible only comes in later
by the translators
that translated.
"The splendor of the
highest," he means God.
In the original, the word
God is never mentioned.
So he continues in
the Book of Ezekiel
and he says that "the
splendorness of the highest
arrived a second time.
And this time, the hand of the
highest put him on the throne."
In my view, he was sitting
in the co-pilot's chair.
And then he describes
how they started.
He says, "And the hand of the
highest pressed upon my chest,"
because he feels the
gravity when starting.
He does not know
where the trip goes
because he says they brought me
on a very, very high mountain.
He doesn't know where he is.
He looks down.
And he sees under him something
like a city, a small city
or a big village.
And in the center of it,
something like a temple.
The splendorness of the
Lord comes to a standstill
over the temple.
Slowly, slowly, he sinks
inside the so-called temple.
And Ezekiel realized
at that moment
that the noise of the wings were
at this time higher and louder
than what he had heard before
in the desert, because now
the echo comes back from the
walls of the so-called temple.
Then it comes to a standstill.
Ezekiel gets out, gets
out of the space shuttle.
And of a sudden,
a glittering being
appears again, one
of the strangers.
And he says to Ezekiel,
oh, humans, you humans, you
have eyes to see
but you see nothing.
And you have ears to hear,
but you hear nothing.
And then that man
in glittering suit
gives Ezekiel a
measuring device.
And all the thing to
measure this whole building,
the so-called temple.
Ezekiel in the meantime
he understands that this
has nothing to do with God.
So he has courage.
He asked back to the
glittering man, why?
Why should I
measure this temple?
And the other one says that's
the reason why we brought you
here, humans.
So Ezekiel starts to
measure length, and wide,
and how many stairs, et cetera.
All this you can
read in the Bible.
All the measurements of
this so-called temple.
Now in Germany we had
a German engineer,
his name is Hans Herbert Beier.
And he read these measurements
and he asked himself,
is this a true building or is
it just imagination and fantasy?
And he started to
calculate exactly according
to Ezekiel's measurement.
And out comes a building which
looks today like a stadium,
like a football stadium.
And then this German
engineer came to me.
And I saw his calculations,
absolutely precise.
I asked him, have you ever
heard of NASA, of Mr. Blumrich's
reconstruction?
Because NASA did only
reconstruct the splendorness
of the highest, which
means the shuttle,
while the German engineer
was only reconstructing
the so-called temple.
So one have the splendors of
the highest and the temple.
So I brought the two men
together-- the German engineer
and the NASA engineer.
And the space shuttle fit
perfectly into the temple
by every centimeter.
The so-called temple
was nothing else
but the base station for the
extraterrestrial shuttle.
It was not God.
It was simply the space shuttle
of the extraterrestrials.
>> That's God's throne
chariot, his celestial chariot.
That's the terminology
they would use.
But we today would say, well,
that's a spacecraft that
just came out of a
stargate or a wormhole
and is suddenly manifested
on the earth plane.
So it's a dramatic
example of what
we think of as an
extraterrestrial encounter
in the Bible.
>> Not only do these
celestial-type beings appear
in the Book of Ezekiel,
but they're also referenced
in other passages
from the Bible.
If this ancient text is as
much a historical document
as it is a religious
one, might these
be clues of a deeper story
to our human history?
>> If you look into the
other account of Enoch,
Enoch had a designated time
where he would get into a UFO
to lift off with these beings.
So much so that he even gave his
son the records, and the time,
and the date, and everything
else that he would be leaving.
And he took off.
And Enoch was a very, very
important person in the Bible.
He's mentioned in the
Bible several times,
even though they
omitted his book.
And the reason why they omitted
his book from the Bible,
the Book of Enoch,
is because it talks
about people coming from space
and interacting and engaging
with mankind.
>> If we consider that advanced
beings came with technologies
from space and
engaged with mankind,
might we see evidence of this
in the biblical book of Joshua?
It is written that
the walls of Jericho
fell after the Israelites
marched around the city blowing
their trumpets.
They were carrying with them
the Ark of the Covenant.
Some scholars suggest that
Moses and the Israelites
acquired a supernatural
source of energy
at Mount Sinai when they were
given the commandments that
were later placed within
the Ark of the Covenant.
Could the Ark have contained
an energy source so powerful
that it could amplify
Joshua's horns and radiate
enough sonic frequency to
bring down those walls?
And if so, what
other examples show
evidence of this power source?
>> When we're talking about
possible extraterrestrial
technology, of course, we
have to talk about the Ark
of the Covenant.
A device that was transmitted,
the blueprint was transmitted,
by God to an Israelite
craftsman, Bezaleel,
who crafts this device.
But before he
does, God gives him
all the wisdom of the universe
to build a simple golden box?
No.
This is an extraordinary piece
of extraterrestrial technology.
In fact we're told
that there isn't just
one Ark of the Covenant,
there's one on the Earth
and there's one at
the throne of God.
They must be connected.
And what this opens up
is the possibilities
that the Ark of the
Covenant is just
not a simple container for
the tablets of the law,
and the rod of Aaron,
and the flask of manna,
and the cruise of anointing
oil, as we're told.
That, in fact, the
Ark of the Covenant
is a far more profound device.
That, in fact, it could, in
fact, be a portal device.
This is based on the
eyewitness accounts of it
in operation in the Holy of
Holies of Solomon's temple
where eyewitnesses like
Isaiah report seeing luminous
humanoid beings
suddenly manifested
between the wings
of the cherubim
guarding the Ark
of the Covenant.
So it's a profound
technology that we're
talking about with the
Ark of the Covenant.
>> And in the Book of Samuel
it says everyone who came too
close to the Ark of
the Covenant died.
And they described
how they died.
Their skin becomes pale.
Their nails and fingers
and feet fell out.
They were blind, et cetera.
So they were afraid of
the Ark of the Covenant.
And freely, by free will, they
brought it back to Israel.
The Israelites the
next morning saw
that the Ark of the
Covenant were here again.
With four horses, the
horses were already near,
the children of
Israel were dancing
around the Ark of the
Covenant praying to the Lord
that the Ark of the
Covenant is back finally
from the land of the enemy.
And at that morning,
so says the Bible,
72 of the Israelites
died, including children.
What have these
children done wrong?
The only thing they were
too close to the Ark
of the Covenant, because
the Ark of the Covenant
was absolutely dangerous.
>> Humans had no business being
around the Ark of the Covenant.
It was carried on ring posts,
for one thing for protection.
And those who did
carry it reported,
what we today would readily
interpret as radiation affects,
their hair, their
teeth fell out.
Whole populations
of the Philistines
were wiped out by
something emanating
from the Ark of the
Covenant because
of its radioactive qualities.
>> Found in the Book of Exodus
is a bush engulfed in flames
that does not singe or calcinate
and where God appears with
a message for Moses
etched in stone.
Could this be a
reference to visitors
using advanced technology?
>> If you look at
the story of Moses,
he supposedly climbed the
mountain and he then met with
the Lord who was represented
as a burning bush.
It's very, very
easy nowadays for us
to understand that
that burning bush may
have been some
type of technology
that he just didn't have
the vocabulary to explain.
And during this
interaction with him
and this quote
unquote "deity," he
was then given the
Ten Commandments,
which were etched into stone.
The only thing
that could do that
nowadays would be technology.
We have laser
etching technology.
We have different
types of technology
that can literally
etch into stone.
So I think that this
may be a representation
of some type of
technology that etched
these commandments into stone.
And these commandments
themselves
were given out many
thousands of years earlier
in the Egyptian
Book of the Dead,
which then made their way
into the story of Moses, which
is just a reduced version of
the 42 laws of Ma'at, which
may have been something
much easier for him
to bring down to
the people and get
them to obey and understand.
>> Throughout the Bible,
we hear all these stories.
Isaiah has one about
beings on clouds.
What is the cloud?
Well the cloud is a
method of transportation
used by these beings.
Perhaps, again, it's a language
thing where people are looking
and saying, oh, this being
is riding upon a cloud
but it's actually
maybe some kind
of a merkabah throne chariot
or an actual technological
spacecraft.
That's very interesting.
In fact, in the Book of Acts,
there's another reference
to this where two angels dressed
in white are walking over
and these men of Galilee just
after the ascension of Jesus
are looking up.
The angels say to the men of
Galilee, why do you look up?
Jesus will return
to you on a cloud
exactly the same
way that he left.
And so it's clear that the
cloud is not a puffy white thing
that we see in our atmosphere.
The cloud is some kind
of method of conveyance
between Earth and the heavens.
So when you're in the Bible and
you're seeing a reference to,
oh, I saw a being
riding on a cloud,
we know that's a reference
to some form of a craft.
>> In the United States, the
Pentagon has publicly confirmed
that recent videos of
unidentified aerial phenomena
were authentic and admitted they
don't know how the technology
worked.
Even the Vatican
has put resources
into the discovery of potential
extraterrestrial life.
>> The Vatican has been very
interested in extraterrestrial
life for a long time.
They invested
millions of dollars
into an observatory in
Arizona, of all places,
looking for extraterrestrial
life in our universe.
>> A father, Gabriel Funes who
was the director of the Vatican
Observatory at the
time who said that just
as there's a multiplicity
of creatures on the earth,
why can't there be a
multiplicity of creatures out
in the cosmos?
That God created other
intelligent beings.
Who are we to limit
God's creativity?
>> Because of my having been
Chief Counsel of the Jesuit
National Headquarters in their
National Social Ministry Office
for 10 years in Washington, DC,
I had access to Father Funes.
So I reached out
to him right away
and actually went to
visit him, and sat down,
and had this face to face
conversation with him.
And in less than
three minutes, he
was acknowledging that what
he was really talking about
was not just microscopic life
elsewhere, or even little
insects or anything
on some other planet,
he was talking about another
highly intelligent, highly
technologically developed,
but categorically
non-human species
elsewhere in our galaxy.
And that was
extraordinarily important.
The implications are that
implied teachings of not
only the Church, but virtually
every human institution
down through the
ages have all been
rooted in the kind of
unconscious premise
that our human
species is at the apex
of all evolved, sentient
evolution in the universe.
And for us to discover
that isn't true,
dethrones us from the
apex of the pyramid
of life in the universe.
Pope Francis, when
he was confronted
with this question about what
the beliefs of the Church
were with regard
to the existence
of extraterrestrial
beings, saying that,
well, he would see
no problem at all
in baptizing our brethren
from an extraterrestrial
civilization, because all life
forms are children of God.
The, I guess, inertia of
the institutional church
is causing them to think that
the people are a lot more
ignorant and dumber
than they really are.
And so when you say
something like the pope
would be willing to
baptize, well, then you
say, well, what makes you think
that they want to be baptized
by the Catholic church?
You know?
I mean it's like
we go down we find
a whole tribe of chimpanzees.
And they're talking about
being willing to train us
on how to eat a banana.
You know?
I mean you've got to get
on to a higher level.
>> While the discovery of
advanced intelligent life
elsewhere in the universe
may seem like a contradiction
to conventional
religious doctrine,
what might the implications be
if the highest representatives
of the Church and other
religious institutions
acknowledge extraterrestrials
in the Bible?
>> So what are the implications
of ET interaction in the Bible
for us today?
I think what it tells us is
that, one, extraterrestrials
have been here for
a very long time
and have a definite interest
in the evolution of humanity.
What is the purpose?
Well, ultimately
in these stories,
it's about showing
humanity how to become
better versions of ourselves.
That we can actually
become like the gods.
That through our interaction
with these beings,
we, too, can ascend
to the heavens,
whether that means
in a spiritual form
or traveling in the stars
in some form of a craft
or through a stargate.
Either way, these
beings have been here.
And most of these
stories where we're
talking about an interaction
with extraterrestrials
involved humans somehow
going into the stars,
going to other places, and
sometimes even returning.
>> I believe that when you
look at some of the accounts
of ancient craft and UFOs and
maybe even potentially aliens
in the modern-day Bible, you
look forward to a future where
we're moving in the
direction of the ancients.
We're moving in
a direction where
we are now obtaining
technologies
that make us look godlike.
I believe that
right now, the way
we're moving forward
in technology,
it's going to allow
human beings to operate
on a telepathic level.
We can share information
wirelessly, like Wi-Fi devices.
And I also do believe that our
space frame technology is going
to give us the ability to
do things like beam people
from one place to another.
We are already working
on beaming things
through the teleportation
devices in laboratories
on Earth right now.
So the future is
going to look much
like the things being described
in the modern-day Bible,
except we'll know that it's
really advanced technology.
>> Everything is
going to change.
Everything is going to change.
The interpretation of all
information on our planet
is going to change.
We're going to be in a
completely new paradigm.
And so that we're
going to have to view
these reports in biblical
times of encounters with beings
from some other dimension, some
other spiritual plane, vehicles
or encounters like in
Ezekiel of this whirling
light ship of some sort,
all of these things
are going to have to be
reinterpreted in light of this.
>> Many of our modern day
Abrahamic religions are now
being re-examined and their
doctrines reshaped based
on the idea that we're
not alone in the universe.
There's a new type of
spirituality emerging,
because the old ways are not
as relevant as they once were.
More than half of
American adults
and 75% of young
Americans believe
we've had contact with some sort
of intelligent extraterrestrial
life.
This level of belief rivals
that even of a belief in God.
But one day we might
discover that the Bible
is one of the greatest
extraterrestrial contact
documents ever written.
>> As we conclude Season
3 of "Deep Space,"
consider the following--
if a distant race
of ancient aliens
once inhabited the
lands of the Bible,
and these were real-life
events and not merely visions,
then a new paradigm awaits us
where science, spirituality,
and open contact is the next
scripture about to be written.
[THEME MUSIC]